[WIP!] Update lizard docs (#16)
nens/lizard-docs: source/d_geoblocks.rst

=========
Geoblocks
=========

Introduction
============

Geo-information services often rely on high resolution data from multiple sources.

> Geoblocks provide the tool to process these geo-data on-the-fly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Geoblocks provides the tools to process these geo-data on-the-fly. 
```

The technology enables big geo-data solutions for operational data flows.
Geoblock operations can be computed on a regular basis or executed upon request.

One geoblock can modify the information in raster or geometry data, e.g. multiply two rasters or buffer a geometry.
Multiple geoblocks can be stacked together into a model, like stacking lego blocks into a tower.

Geoblocks information services are transparent and reproducible.
A geoblocks graph is the model configuration that defines how data should be combined to create information.
The model configuration can be accessed and altered via API and a graph view visualization is automatically generated (example in figure x).

https://demo.lizard.net/api/v4/geoblocks/e12fcc5c-7313-827b-1d5c-26bd294792c4/visualize/?format=svg

Figure x: Geoblocks visualization example of a water depth raster masked below 2.5 cm.

.. warning::
    Missing Figure!
    Linked geoblock is no longer available

Flexibility
===========

> - Geoblocks are modular. This means that the blocks are self-contained units, that can be combined or interchanged with others to create different shapes or designs. Hence, multiple geoblocks configurations can be combined into a new configuration or information service.

Reviewer: Hier heb je een voorbeeld van een plek waar je twee zinnen in één bullet point nodig hebt.
Dat is de reden dat ik altijd hoofdletters en punten gebruik.

                        "build_year": "building_build_year"
                    },
                    "geometry",
                    "start",
                    "end"
                ],
                "buildyear": [
                    "geoblocks.geometry.base.GetSeriesBlock",
                    "buildings",
                    "building_build_year"
                ],
                "label": [
                    "geoblocks.geometry.field_operations.Classify",
                    "buildyear",
                    [
                        1900,
                        1940,
                        1970,
                        1990
                    ],
                    [
                        "A",
                        "B",
                        "C",
                        "D",
                        "E"
                    ]
                ],
                "result": [
                    "geoblocks.geometry.base.SetSeriesBlock",
                    "buildings",
                    "label_value",
                    "label"
                ]
            },
            "name": "result"
        }
    }

Geoblock operations 
===================

Raster:

> * read raster data (e.g. read :ref:`raster store <why_rasterstores>`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Read raster data (e.g. read :ref:`raster store <why_rasterstores>`)
```

Geoblocks
=========

Digital geo services rely on high resolution big data coming from multiple real-time sources. 
We developed GeoBlocks to make it more easy to process and analyse (real-time) that data to create a digital geo service. 

GeoBlocks is a GIS modelling toolbox that allows you to make on-the-fly analysis using raster & vector data. 
There are two basetype Blocks: `RasterBlocks <https://dask-geomodeling.readthedocs.io/en/latest/raster.html>`_ and `Geometry and Series Blocks <https://dask-geomodeling.readthedocs.io/en/latest/geometry.html#>`_. 
A combination of blocks is called a "graph".

> - GeoBlocks derives information on-the-fly and creating a "view" on your data. This is also the reason why it's very efficient in data storage. For example, you can clip, substract and mask without having to store intermediate results! 

Reviewer: Ik doe altijd enters tussen de punten. (Dit geldt op meer plekken).

Dat werkt betrouwbaarder als je later nog eens de regels op 80 karakters gaan inkorten.

- It's easy to apply your model on different input datastes (e.g. replace Elevation dataset 1 with a newer Elevation dataset 2), for example to detect changes.
- Unlike conventional GIS raster calculator solutions, you can combine data with different resolutions and varying spatial extent.

Open Source
===========

The computational core of GeoBlocks is published open source under the name `dask-geomodeling <https://dask-geomodeling.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_. Most operations are identical. Only the I/O filetype and configuration differs.
The open source library can be used to build on-the-fly models on your own PC. There's a limitation in the complexity of the models that you can run locally. This is determined by your memory and processor capabilities. 

If you want to scale up your model or increase complexity you can do publish your model and data to Lizard using the Lizard API. With the GeoBlocks engine you can scale up your models and integrate the model in your geo services using the Lizard API and Lizard WMS capabilities. 

Getting familiair with GeoBlocks 
================================

> We like helping you get more familiair with GeoBlocks. We've created a Jupyter Notebook to give you a hands-on experience with the basics of GeoBlocks. You can `download <LINK TO GITHUB PAGE FOR JUPYTER NOTEBOOK>`_ it on our Github page. Make sure to follow the right `installation procedures <https://dask-geomodeling.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html>`_. 

Reviewer: link nog nodig.

Any questions? We're happy to help! You can contact our servicedesk on servicedesk@nelen-schuurmans.nl

How to create a GeoBlocks model/graph and view the result
=========================================================

GeoBlocks are interpreted in `JSON <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON>`_. Your graph can be edited by POSTing or PATCHing to the Lizard API. `Postman <https://www.getpostman.com/>`_ can come in handy to manage your graph. 
API filtering is supported and documented in the API raster endpoint: `<https://demo.lizard.net/api/v3/rasters/>`_

Raster output
-------------

If your GeoBlock output is a raster. Your GeoBlocks results can be requested via the `Catalogue <demo.lizard.net/catalogue>`_ `Raster API endpoint <demo.lizard.net/api/v3/rasters/>`_ and can be request via the Lizard WMS service.
If you want to find your graph in the Lizard API it's easiest to use the Catalogue.

> - Search for your raster in the catalogue 

Reviewer: Entertje ervoor.
